COURT TODAY STRUCK DOWN OVERALL
LIMITS ON POLITICAL
CONTRIBUTIONS IN IT'S BIGGEST
DECISION ON CAMPAIGN FINANCE
SINCE THE 2010 "CITIZENS UNITED"
CASE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF,
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD, OUR CONVERSATION
WITH THE HEAD OF THE
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND,
CHRISTINE LAGARDE.
SHE WEIGHS IN ON WESTERN
SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA AND
SAYS THE UKRAINIAN ECONOMY NEEDS
TOUGH REFORMS.
>> THE ECONOMY OF UKRAINE WAS
HEADING FOR DISASTER.
IT'S AN ECONOMY THAT NEEDED
PROFOUND TRANSFORMATION OF ITS
FISCAL POLICY, OF ITS MONETARY
POLICY, AND OF ITS POLICIES ON
ENERGY.
>> Woodruff: PLUS:
>> THE REALITY IS THAT MY
JOURNEY BEGAN INSIDE A JAIL CELL
JUST LIKE THIS.
TWENTY-SIX YEARS AGO.
>> Woodruff: WE GET THE STORY OF
A FORMER INMATE WHO WENT BACK TO
JAIL.
NOT AS A CRIMINAL, BUT AS A MAN
WITH A MESSAGE, IMPLORING OTHER
PRISONERS TO TURN THEIR LIVES
AROUND.
>> I THINK THE BIGGEST PROBLEM
IN OUR CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM
IS THAT WE DON'T SET GOALS HIGH
ENOUGH.
WE NEED TO SEND A MESSAGE THAT
PEOPLE IN PRISON CAN COME BACK
WHOLE.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: IT COULD HAVE BEEN
MUCH, MUCH WORSE.
CHILE SURVIVED A MAJOR
EARTHQUAKE OVERNIGHT, WITH
RELATIVELY LIMITED DAMAGE.
THE EPICENTER OF THE 8.2
MAGNITUDE QUAKE WAS IN THE
PACIFIC OCEAN, ABOUT 60 MILES
OFFSHORE.
IT SENT PEOPLE RUNNING IN THE
AISLES OF STORES, AS PRODUCTS
TUMBLED OFF THE SHELVES.
SIX PEOPLE DIED, AND THOUSANDS
OF COASTAL RESIDENTS WERE
EVACUATED FROM LOW-LYING AREAS.
>> Woodruff: A SMALLER 5.8
MAGNITUDE QUAKE HIT PANAMA
TODAY.
PEOPLE REPORTED LIGHT AND
MODERATE SHAKING, BUT THE HEAD
OF PANAMA'S EMERGENCY SERVICES
SAID THERE WAS NO DAMAGE, AND NO
ONE WAS INJURED.
THE CONFIRMED DEATH TOLL IN THE
WASHINGTON STATE MUDSLIDE HAS
NOW RISEN TO 29.
18 OTHERS ARE STILL LISTED AS
MISSING.
THE UPDATED NUMBERS CAME AS
FLOOD WATERS RECEDED IN THE
SMALL COMMUNITY OF OSO.
THAT'S ALLOWED CREWS TO REACH
SOME AREAS THAT HAD YET TO BE
SEARCHED.
>> Woodruff: THE HEAD OF GENERAL
MOTORS FACED ANOTHER HOSTILE
RECEPTION ON CAPITOL HILL TODAY,
OVER THE COMPANY'S YEARS-LONG
DELAY ADDRESSING A SAFETY
PROBLEM.
IT INVOLVES FAULTY IGNITION
SWITCHES LINKED TO 13 DEATHS.
MARY BARRA TOLD SENATORS SHE'S
WAITING FOR AN INTERNAL
INVESTIGATION, AND
DOES NOT KNOW MANY DETAILS.
THAT FRUSTRATED CALIFORNIA
DEMOCRAT BARBARA BOXER.
SHE CITED NINE YEAR OLD G.M.
DOCUMENTS, ALREADY RELEASED,
THAT CONCLUDED FIXING THE
PROBLEM WAS TOO COSTLY.
>> THE CODE WORDS, QUOTE, NONE
OF THE SOLUTIONS REPRESENTS AN
ACCEPTABLE BUSINESS CASE NOW
THAT WAS A PUBLIC DOCUMENT.
G.M. GAVE THAT DOCUMENT OVER YOU
CAN'T EVEN TALK TO THAT YOU
DON'T KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT
ANYTHING.
AND I AM VERY DISAPPOINTED,
REALLY.
AS A WOMAN TO WOMAN, I AM VERY
DISAPPOINTED.
BECAUSE THE CULTURE YOU ARE
REPRESENTING HERE TODAY IS A
CULTURE OF THE STATUS QUO.
>> Woodruff: BARRA TOOK OVER AS
CEO IN JANUARY.
SHE AGREED CALCULATIONS OF COST
MUST NOT INFLUENCE RECALLS.
>> ONCE THERE'S A SAFETY ISSUE
IT SHOULD NEVER HAVE A BUSINESS
CASE THAT GOES AGAINST IT IN
MAKING ANY PART OF DECISION
MAKING AND WE GO FORWARD NOW
THERE ISN'T ANY SO I AM AS
DISTURBED AS YOU.
I WANT TO UNDERSTAND AND I
COMMIT TO YOU THAT I WILL MAKE
CHANGE BOTH PEOPLE AND PROCESS.
>> Woodruff: SEVERAL SENATORS
WARNED G.M. MAY BE GUILTY OF A
CRIMINAL COVER-UP.
BARRA PROMISED THE COMPANY WILL
COOPERATE WITH A JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT INVESTIGATION.
ALL THIS, ON THE SAME DAY EVEN
MORE AUTO RECALLS WERE
ANNOUNCED, THIS TIME FROM
CHRYSLER.
THE AUTOMAKER ANNOUNCED IT'S
CALLING BACK ALMOST 870,000 JEEP
GRAND CHEROKEES AND DODGE
DURANGOS.
THEIR BRAKES HAVE PARTS THAT CAN
CORRODE, MAKING IT HARDER TO
STOP.
THE RECALL AFFECTS THE 2011 AND
2014 MODEL YEARS.
THE NATION'S CAPITAL WILL BE
GETTING A NEW MAYOR.
CITY COUNCIL MEMBER MURIEL
BOWSER EASILY DEFEATED INCUMBENT
MAYOR VINCENT GRAY IN TUESDAY'S
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY.
GRAY HAS BEEN EMBROILED IN A
CAMPAIGN FINANCE SCANDAL FROM
HIS PREVIOUS MAYORAL RACE,
ALTHOUGH HE DENIES ANY
WRONGDOING.
BOWSER WILL BE FAVORED IN THE
NOVEMBER GENERAL ELECTION
AGAINST ANOTHER COUNCIL MEMBER,
WHO'S RUNNING AS AN INDEPENDENT.
THE MAN WHO BECAME THE FACE OF
THE 1980'S SAVINGS AND LOANS
CRISIS, CHARLES KEATING JUNIOR,
HAS DIED.
HE WAS CONVICTED OF DEFRAUDING
INVESTORS WITH $200 MILLION
DOLLARS WORTH OF JUNK BONDS. THE
COLLAPSE OF HIS THRIFT, IN
PHOENIX, COST TAXPAYERS MORE
THAN $2.5 BILLION.
THE SCANDAL ALSO ENSNARED FIVE
U.S. SENATORS WHO ACCEPTED
KEATING'S CAMPAIGN DONATIONS.
CHARLES KEATING JUNIOR WAS 90
YEARS OLD.
WALL STREET MOVED HIGHER TODAY
AFTER UPBEAT REPORTS ON
MANUFACTURING AND HIRING.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 40 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,573.
THE NASDAQ ROSE EIGHT POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,276.
THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED FIVE
POINTS TO CLOSE AT A RECORD
HIGH: 1,890.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE SUPREME COURT UP-ENDS A
MAJOR CAMPAIGN FINANCE
LIMITATION; I.M.F., ON THE
CRISIS IN UKRAINE AND THE STATE
OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMY; A FORMER
INMATE INSPIRING OTHER PRISONERS
TO TURN THEIR LIVES AROUND;
A PREVIEW OF THE STAKES IN
SATURDAY'S PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
IN AFGHANISTAN; PLUS,
HUMANITARIAN EFFORTS IN THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC.
>> Woodruff: THE SUPREME COURT
TODAY STRUCK DOWN A KEY
PROVISION OF THE FEDERAL
CAMPAIGN FINANCE LAW.
WEALTHY DONORS CAN NOW
CONTRIBUTE TO AN UNLIMITED
NUMBER OF CANDIDATES AND
POLITICAL COMMITTEES.
THE VOTE WAS FIVE TO FOUR IN
FAVOR OF ELIMINATING THE CURRENT
CAP ON TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS.
THE RULING DID NOT AFFECT HOW
MUCH AN INDIVIDUAL CAN GIVE TO
ANY ONE CANDIDATE.
FOR MORE ON TODAY'S DECISION, WE
TURN TO MARCIA COYLE OF THE
NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL.
SHE WAS IN THE COURTROOM THIS
MORNING.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT WAS THE
COURT ASKED TO DECIDE HERE?
WHAT WAS THIS CASE ABOUT?
>> THE COURT BASICALLY WAS ASKED
TO DECIDE WHETHER THE TOTAL CAP
ON WHAT AN INDIVIDUAL CAN
CONTRIBUTE TO A CANDIDATE OR
POLITICAL COMMITTEES AND PARTIES
IN A TWO-YEAR ELECTION CYCLE IS
STILL ESSENTIALLY JUSTIFIED BY
THE GOVERNMENT'S LEGITIMATE
INTEREST IN PREVENTING
CORRUPTION OR THE APPEARANCE OF
CORRUPTION.
THE COURT BACK IN 1976, JUDY,
UPHELD THAT LIMIT.
AND TODAY THE CASE THAT THE
COURT DECIDED WAS BY A
REPUBLICAN BUSINESS MAN WAS
ALABAMA AND THE REPUBLICAN
NATIONAL COMMITTEE WHO ARGUED
THAT THE CAP WAS NO LONGER
SERVING THAT GOVERNMENT
INTEREST, AND SINCE IT DIDN'T IT
WAS VIOLATING THE FIRST
AMENDMENT SPEECH RIGHTS WOONCH
WHAT WAS THE ARGUMENT THAT THE
MAJORITY MADE?
HOW ARE THEY INTERPRETINGING THE
CRIEWTION DIFFERENTLY NOW FROM
THE WAY THEY DID IN THE PAST?
>> THE CHIEF JUSTICE SAYS THE
GOVERNMENT HAS ONE INTEREST.
TO PREVENT CORRUPTION OR THE
APPEARANCE OF CORRUPTION.
THE GOVERNMENT ARGUED THAT THE
TOTAL CAP SERVES THAT INTEREST
BECAUSE IT PREVENTED
CIRCUMVENTION OF THE BASE
LIMITS.
THAT'S THE LIMIT ON WHAT AN
INDIVIDUAL CAN CONTRIBUTE IN ONE
ELECTION SO THE CHIEF JUSTICE
EXAMINED WHETHER THAT ACTUALLY
IS TRUE.
DOES IT STILL TODAY PREVENTION
CIRCUMVENTION OF THESE BASE
LIMITS AND HE WENT THROUGH THE
GOVERNMENT SCENARIOS AS TO HOW
THAT ACTUALLY WORKS AND HE
ULTIMATELY CONCLUDED THAT THOSE
SCENARIOS ALREADY ARE ILLEGAL
UNDER CURRENT LAW OR AS HE SAID
DIVORCED FROM REALITY.
>> Woodruff: HE IS SAYING
CIRCUMSTANCES FROM CHANGES FROM
BACK THEN TO TODAY.
>> RIGHT.
THE LANDSCAPE HAD CHANGED.
HE SAID THERE ARE
ANTI-CIRCUMVENTION MEASURES
PLACE AND THERE ISES WILL A
INTRICATE REGULATORY SYSTEM THAT
THE FEDERAL ELECTIONS COMMISSION
HAS ENACTED.
>> Woodruff: 5-4 DECISION.
CONSERVATIVES ON ONE SIDE,
LIBERALS ON THE OTHER.
LIBERALS DISSENTING STRONGLY AND
IT WAS JUSTIS STEPHEN BREYER.
>> HE READ FROM THE BENCH WHICH
IS ALWAYS AN INDICATION OF HOW
STRONGLY THE DISSENTERS FEEL.
HE SAID THE MAJORITY WAS MAKING
A DECISION BASED ON ITS OWN
READING OF THE FACTS.
THERE WAS NO LOWER COURT RECORD
HERE SHOWING HOW THIS ACTUALLY
WORKED IN CAMPAIGNS.
SECONDLY, AND MOST IMPORTANTLY,
I THINK, HE SAID THE COURT READ
THE DEFINITION OF CORRUPTION TOO
NARROWLY.
BACK IN CITIZENS UNITED THE
COURT DID NARROW THE DEFINITION
OF CORRUPTION.
THE MAJORITY THERE SAID IT IS
ONLY QUID PRO QUO CORRUPTION,
SOMETHING AKIN TO A BRIBE.
THE COURT SAID THAT THE
POSSIBILITY THAT SPENDING LARGE
AMOUNTS MIGHT GIVE A DONOR
INFLUENCE OVER OR ACCESS TO AN
ELECTED OFFICIAL DOESN'T GIVE
RISE TO CORRUPTION.
JUSTICE BREYER SAID, NO, IT'S
TOO NARROW.
THERE'S ANOTHER INTEREST HERE
AND THAT IS THE INTEREST OF
PROTECTING THE INTEGRITY OF THE
POLITICAL GOVERNMENTAL
INSTITUTIONS.
HE SAID WHERE MONEY SPEAKS
ENOUGH THE PUBLIC'S VOICE WILL
NOT BE HEARD.
THAT IS SAY CONCERN, HE SAID,
THE CONGRESS HAS, A LEGITIMATE
CONCERN IN WORRYING ABOUT LARGE
MONEY DONATIONS.
>> Woodruff: YOU AND I WERE
TALKING BEFORE WE WENT ON THE,
YOU ARE SAYING THIS IS JUST THE
LATEST ON ONE EXAMPLE OF HOW
ONE-HALF OF THE COURT SEES MONEY
IN POLITICS DIFFERENTLY THAN THE
OTHER HALF.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
THE FIRST AMENDMENT LOOKS AT
POLITICAL SPEECH AS THE CORE OF
PROTECTIONS.
THE CONSERVATIVES ON THE COURT
FEEL THERE'S A STRONG LIBERTY
INTEREST HERE.
MORE SPEECH, THE BETTER.
THEY ARE NOT SAYING MONEY IF A
SILL TATES COURT.
LIBERAL MEMBERS SAY THERE'S AN
EQUALITY CONCERN HERE.
THERE HAS TO BE SOME REGULATION
OF SPEECH IN ORDER THAT THE FEW
DON'T DROWN OUT THE MONEY OR THE
VERY FEW WEALTHY DON'T DROWN OUT
THE MANY.
>>
WOONCH THERE ARE STILL.
>> Woodruff: THERE ARE STILL
LIMITS ON HOW MUCH CAN BE GIVEN
TO ONE CANDIDATE.
ANY HINT WHETHER THAT LIMIT
COULD BE REMOVED?
>> THE CHIEF JUSTICE SAID THAT
THE DECISION DOES NOT EFFECT
THOSE LIMITS.
YOU MAY TALK TO EXPERTS THAT
FEEL THAT THE PROVISION MAY
PROVIDE FIRE POWER TO CHALLENGE
THE OTHER LIMITS.
>> Woodruff: MARCIA COYLE,
THANK YOU.
>> MY, PLEASURE, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: REACTION TO THE
COURT'S DECISION WAS SWIFT.
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR CHUCK SCHUMER
OF NEW YORK SAID IT "TURNED BACK
THE CLOCK ON OUR DEMOCRACY."
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER
HAILED IT AS A VICTORY FOR THE
FIRST AMENDMENT.
>> WHAT I THINK THIS MEANS IS
THAT FREEDOM OF SPEECH IS BEING
UPHELD.
YOU ALL HAVE THE FREEDOM TO
WRITE WHAT YOU WANT TO WRITE.
DONORS OUGHT TO HAVE THE FREEDOM
TO GIVE WHAT THEY WANT TO GIVE.
>> THE VERY WEALTHY SHOULD BE
ALLOWED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE
SYSTEM, BUT MOST PEOPLE WOULD
AGREE IF YOU DID A BALANCING
TEST, ALREADY THEIR WEIGHT IS
DISPROPORTIONATE AND THIS MAKES
IT MORE SO.
>> Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASAN IN
OUR NEW YORK STUDIO GETS MORE
REACTION NOW.
>> Sreenivasan: JOINING ME NOW
TO EXPLORE THE RAMIFICATIONS OF
TODAY'S DECISION ARE ERIN
MURPHY, A PARTNER AT BANCROFT
LAW FIRM IN WASHINGTON.
SHE ARGUED, AND WON, THIS CASE
IN FRONT OF THE COURT ON BEHALF
OF MR. MCCUTCHEON AND THE
REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE.
AND MICHAEL WALDMAN, PRESIDENT
OF THE BRENNAN CENTER FOR
JUSTICE AT NYU LAW SCHOOL.
MISS MURPHY, LET ME START WITH
YOU.
WHAT DOES TODAY'S CASE MEAN TO
CLIENTS LIKE YOURS AND TO
COMBINE FINANCE?
>> I THINK WHAT TODAY'S DECISION
IS A BIG VICTORY FOR THE FIRST
AMENDMENT AND FOR THE RIGHTS OF
INDIVIDUALS WHO WANT TO EXERCISE
THEIR FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS
ROBUSTLY AND TO SUPPORT AS MANY
CANDIDATE ASS THEY CHOOSE TO
SUPPORT.
A DIVERSE ARRAY T
VARIETY OF VIEWS, AND NOT TO NOT
BE ARTIFICIALLY LIMITED TO
SUPPORTING, AS IT WAS, ONLY NINE
CANDIDATES WHEN THERE ARE MANY
MORE THAT THEY MAY HAVE A STRONG
INTEREST IN SUPPORTING IN
WHATEVER WAY THEY CAN.
>> Sreenivasan: MICHAEL
WALDMAN WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN EIGHT CANDIDATES OR 400
CANDIDATES?
>> I THINK IT'S A SIGNIFICANT
OPINION.
IT'S THE FIRST TIME THE SUPREME
COURT HAS TRUCK DOWN A FEDERAL
CONTRIBUTION LIMIT SINCE WATER
GAS GATE SINCE THEY WERE
IMPOSED.
I THINK IT WILL LEAD TO
SIGNIFICANTLY NEW CORRUPTION.
THE FACT IS THERE ARE MANY, MANY
WAYS THAT THESE KINDS OF
CONTRIBUTIONS TO OTHER
CANDIDATES CAN BE USED TO EVADE
THE CAMPAIGN FINANCE LAWS.
AND AS HAS BEEN DISCUSSED, THE
COURT NARROWED THE DEFINITION,
NARROWED THE CONCEPTION OF
CORRUPTION TO A SMALL CONCEPT.
BASICALLY IT NEEDS TO BE LIKE
AMERICAN HUSTLE OR AB SCAM.
IF YOU HAVE A VIDEO TAPE OF
SOMEONE DRESSED UP IN A COST
CONSUME HANDING A SUITCASE FULL
OF MONEY TO A MEMBER OF CONGRESS
AND GETTING AN AGREEMENT TO DO
SOMETHING IT'S CORRUPTION AND
THAT'S OKAY.
OTHER THAN THAT, CHIEF JUSTICE
ROBERTS SAID BASICALLY TRYING TO
USE YOUR MONEY TO GET INFLUENCE
WITH MEMBERS OF CONGRESSES WAS
AT THE HEART OF THE FIRST
AMENDMENT.
AND I JUST DON'T AGREE WITH
THAT.
AND I THINK IT IS A VERY SHARP
BREAK FROM THE PAST PRECEDENCE
OF THIS COURT AND OTHER COURTS.
>> Sreenivasan: ERIN MURPHY,
SHOULD THERE BE NO CHECK ON
WHETHER OT
INFLUENCE ON CAPITOL HILL IN.
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S A FAIR
CHARACTERIZATION OF OPINION TO
SUGGEST THERE'S NO CHECKS LEFT
ON THE ABILITY -- AS
RESTRICTIONS ON HOW PEOPLE CAN
CONTRIBUTE TO CANDIDATES.
THE COURT HAS UPHELD BASE
CONTRIBUTIONS BEFORE AND THE
CHIEF JUSTICE' OPINION SAYS IT'S
NOT SOMETHING THAT THE COURT WAS
RECONSIDERING IN THIS CASE.
THE BASE LIMITS REMAIN AN
IMPORTANT CHECK AND AN SCHIFTING
CHECK ON HOW MUCH INDIVIDUALS
CAN GIVE TO ANY ONE CANDIDATE OR
ANY PARTY OR ANY POLITICAL
ACTION COMMITTEE.
I DON'T THINK IT'S CARE TO
CHARACTERIZE THIS AS A BREAK
FROM THE COURT'S PAST PRECEDENT.
IF YOU LOOK BACK TO THE FIRST
CASE ON ALL OF THIS, THE COURT
SAID FROM THE VERY START THAT
THE ONLY PROPER WAY TO THINK
ABOUT CORRUPTION IS QUID PRO QUO
CORRUPTION BECAUSE IF YOU GO
BROADER THERE'S NO WAY TO DRAW
THE LIMIT WITHOUT INFRINGING ON
FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS.
>> Sreenivasan: MICHAEL, IS
THE EQUIVALENT TO RESTRICTIONS
ON FREE SPEECH?
>> LIMITS ON POLITICAL
CONTRIBUTIONS HAVE A COMPELLING
GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN
PREVENTING CORRUPTION.
EVEN THEY, THE COURT HAS RULED,
IN SOME WAYS THE MONEY SPENT
CAMPAIGNS IS A FORM OF
FACILITATING SPEECH.
THERE ARE TIMES WHEN IT'S
APPROPRIATE AND RIGHT TO LIMIT
THE SIZE OF THOSE CONTRIBUTIONS.
BECAUSE AGAIN WE CARE A LOT
ABOUT SPEECH BUT WE ALSO CARE A
LOT ABOUT THE INTEGRITY OF
ELECTIONS, THE CORRUPTION OF THE
GOVERNMENT AND THE TRUST PEOPLE
HAVE IN THEIR GOVERNMENT.
AND THIS IS IN SOME WAYS A
RULING THAT IS MORE SIGNIFICANT
THAN CITIZENS UNITED.
CITIZENS UNITED DEALT WITH
INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURES.
MAYBE THEY ARE NOT SOP
INDEPENDENT BUT THE SUPREME
COURT IN THE BUCKLEY VERSUS
VOLAREO OPINION IN THE 1970'S IS
SAYS WE TREAT INDEPENDENT EXPECT
TOURS DIFFERENTLY TO
CONTRIBUTIONS TO OFFICE HOLDERS
WHICH INEVITABLY RAISED THE
APPEARANCE OF THE CORRUPTION AND
THE REALITY OF CORRUPTION.
IT'S CERTAINLY APPROPRIATE WE'RE
LEARNING ABOUT THE DEATH OF
CHARLES KEATING WHO THREW HIS
MONEY AROUND NOT ONLY TO
INFLUENCE LAWMAKERS AND OTHER
PARTY COMMITTEES AND WE SAW THE
KIND OF CORRUPTION AND COST TO
TAXPAYERS THAT CAN HAPPEN WHEN
YOU HAVE THE LOOPHOLES.
THE SUPREME COURT HAD A FUN TIME
WITH THE LOOPHOLES.
>> Sreenivasan: ERIN, WHAT
ABOUT THE IDEA THAT AT THIS
POINT SOMEONE CAN WRITE A $2600
CHECK TO EVERY DEMOCRAT OR
REPUBLICAN IN THE COUNTRY AND
ANOTHER $10,000 CHECK TO EVERY
POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE OR
PARTY.
>> FIRST OF ALL THE FACT THAT
THE LIMIT ON CONTRIBUTIONS TO
ANY ONE CANDIDATE IS $2600
REFLECTS CONGRESS'S JUDGEMENT
THAT GIVING THAT AMOUNT IS NOT
CORRUPTING.
IF THAT'S THE CASE IT DOESN'T
MAKE A LOT OF SENSE TO SUGGEST
IF YOU GIVE THAT AMOUNT TO 100
CANDIDATES VERSUS ONE YOU
SOMEHOW CAUSED MORE CORRUPTION
THAN, YOU KNOW, IF THERE'S NO
CORRUPTION TO ANY CANDIDATE
THERE'S NO CORRUPTION WHEN YOU
MULTIPLY THAT NUMBER BY 100.
I THINK IT'S NOT REALLY A FAIR
WAY TO THINK ABOUT IT TO LOOK AT
ALL OF THIS IN IS AN AGGREGATE
WAY WITHOUT FOCUSING ON HOW MUCH
IS GOING TO ANY ONE INDIVIDUAL
CANDIDATE, ANY ONE INDIVIDUAL
PARTY OR POLITICAL ACTION
COMMITTEE.
>> Sreenivasan: MICHAEL
WALDMAN, YOUR RESPONSE?
>> YES, IN THE REAL WORLD, WE
KNOW THAT THESE KINDS OF MASS
CONTRIBUTIONS TO LOTS OF MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS WILL BE TURNED OVER
BY THE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WITH
A WINK AND A SMILE TO THE
INDIVIDUAL CANDIDATE.
IT IS ALLOWED THAT THE OFFICE
HOLDER CAN ASK FOR THE
CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE GIVEN UP TO
$2.5 MILLION.
ONE OF THE THINGS IN THE OPINION
THAT WAS MOST STRIKING WAS --
THE OPINION SAYS WELL, WE WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, THAT OFFICE HOLDERS
ARE IN TOUCH WITH THEIR
CONSTITUENTS AND THAT IS AT THE
HEART OF THE FIRST AMENDMENT.
I'M A CONSTITUENT OF SOMEBODY I
CAN VOTE FOR.
BUT A DONOR GIVING MONEY TO
CANDIDATES THEY MAYBE NEVER HAVE
MET ALL OVER THE COUNTRY HAS THE
ABILITY TO SPEAK, BUT THEY ARE
NOT A CONSTITUENT.
VERY OFTEN THEY ARE PEOPLE
TRYING TO CURRY FAVOR, WIN A TAX
LOOPHOLE, TRYING TO WIN
LEGISLATION.
THERE'S SO MANY WAYS FOR PEOPLE
WITH LOTS OF MONEY TO HAVE THEIR
VOICES HEARD.
WE ALL KNOW THAT.
THE IDEA THAT THERE'S SOME
SCWEL.
ING OF THE SPEECH OF WEALTHY
INDIVIDUALS DOES NOT REFLECT THE
WORLD THAT ANY OF US ACTUALLY
LIVE IN SLEENCHTS ERIN MURPHY,
MICHAEL WALDMAN, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, A NEWSMAKER
INTERVIEW WITH A WOMAN WHO IS AT
THE CENTER OF MANY IMPORTANT
GLOBAL FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS AT
THE MOMENT: CHRISTINE LAGARDE,
HEAD OF THE INTERNATIONAL
MONETARY FUND.
I SPOKE WITH HER TODAY AT I.M.F.
HEADQUARTERS JUST BEFORE A
SERIES OF MEETINGS GETS UNDERWAY
THIS WEEKEND ABOUT THE ECONOMY
AND GLOBAL FINANCES.
CHRISTINE LAGARDE, MANAGING
DIRECTOR OF INTERNATIONAL MON --
MONETARY FUND.
THANK YOU FOR TALKING TO US.
>> GREAT PLEASURE TO SEE YOU.
>> Woodruff: YOU ARE MOVING
URGENTLY NOW TO PROVIDED A TO
UKRAINE.
THIS IS AT A TIME WHEN THE WORLD
HAS WATCHED RUSSIA COME IN AND
TAKE OVER CRIMEA.
HELP US UNDERSTAND WHY THIS IS
SO IMPORTANT FOR THE PEOPLE OFU.
WHAT IS IT THAT THEY COULD NOT
DO WITHOUT THIS HELP FROM THE
IMF.
>> THE ECONOMY OF UKRAINE WAS
GOING IN THE WALL AND HEADING
FOR DISASTER.
IT'S AN ECONOMY THAT NEEDED
REFORMS, THAT NEEDED PROFOUND
TRANSFORMATION OF ITS FISCAL
POLICY, OF ITS MONETARY POLICY
AND OF ITS POLICIES ON ENERGY
MENTION ONLY THE KEY ONES.
WITHOUT THE SUPPORT THAT THEY
WERE GETTING FROM THIS LIFE LINE
THAT RUSSIA HAD EXTENDED A FEW
MONTHS AGO, THEY WERE HEADING
NOWHERE.
SO THEY HAVE TO DO THOSE REFORMS
AND THEY DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO
THE FINANCIAL MARKET AT THE
MOMENT.
SO THEY NEED THE SUPPORT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY AND THE
SUPPORT OF THE IMF TO DESIGN THE
REFORMS THAT THEY NEED TO PUT IN
PLACE AND TO HAVE THE FINANCING
AVAILABLE TO SUSTAIN THEM UNTIL
THEY CAN RETURN TO THE FINANCIAL
MARKETS IN ORDER TO FINANCE THE
ECONOMY.
>> Woodruff: BUT THE MONEY
COME AT THE SAME TIME THE IMF IS
ASKING THEM TO MAKE REFORMS AND
CHANGES, SOMETIMES DIFFICULT
CHANGES, SOMETIMES TO ADDRESS
CORRUPTION.
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: AND OTHER
PROBLEMS THEY HAVE IN THE WAY
THEY ARE STRUCTURED.
DO YOU WORRY THAT IF THIS IS TOO
STRICT, IT COULD MAKE RUSSIA
SEEM LIKE A MORE APPEALING
ALTERNATIVE BECAUSE THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE ARE BEING ASKED
TO PULL IN THEIR BELTS AND MAKE
SACRIFICES IN ORDER TO QUALIFY
FOR THIS.
>> YOU ARE RIGHT ABOUT QUALITY
FICTION MEANING THAT IMF MONEY
DOES NOT COME FREE.
THE IMF LENDS FINANCING TO
COUNTRIES PROVIDES THAT
COUNTRIES DO FOR THEMSELVES WHAT
THEY NEED TO DO TO RESTORE THE
ECONOMY TO BE ABLE TO FINANCE
THEMSELVES WITHOUT OUR SUPPORT.
SO WE LEND MONEY, AND THE
COUNTRY TAKES A ROAD TO RECOVERY
AND MAKES THE HARD CHOICES,
DECIDES FOR ITSELF WHAT ITS
ECONOMIC FUTURE WILL BE.
IT'S IN TRUTH WHAT YOU SAID.
DEALING WITH CORRUPTION,
RESTORING THE GOVERNANCE,
DEALING WITH THE RIGHT PRICE OF
ENERGY, RESTORING THE FISCAL
SITUATION AND MAKING STRUCTURAL
REFORMS THAT WILL HELP UKRAINE
GET BACK ON A SOLID TRACK.
>> Woodruff: HERE IN THE U.S.
THE CONGRESS VOTED TO PROVIDE
LOAN GUARANTEES BUT THE CONGRESS
DID NOT GO ALONG WITH REFORMS
HERE FOR THE IMF, REPUBLICANS,
IN PARTICULAR, SAY THEY WORRY
THAT GIVING A GREATER VOICE TO
COUNTRIES LIKE CHINA, BRAZIL AND
EVEN RUSSIA MEANS THE U.S. HAS A
SMALLER VOICE AND LESS INFLUENCE
AT THE IMF.
WHAT ARGUMENT DO YOU MAKE TO
REPUBLICANS IN CONGRESS THAT
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT SHOULD BE
DONE?
>> IT IS SOMETHING THAT SHOULD
BE DONE BECAUSE IT WAS COMMITTED
BECAUSE IT WILL DELIVER A MORE
STABLE, MORE SOLID INSTITUTION,
AND OUR JOB IS TO HELP STABILITY
AROUND THE WORLD, FINANCIAL
STABILITY AND INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION.
EVEN IF YOU IGNORE INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION BECAUSE YOU DON'T
BELIEVE IN THAT, FINANCIAL
STABILITY AROUND THE WORLD IS
KEY FOR ALL ECONOMIES.
IF THERE'S NOT A SOLID IMF TO
LEND IN UKRAINE, IN MALI, IN
PAKISTAN TO PUT IN PLACE THE
ECONOMIC PROGRAM, TO SUPPORT THE
AUTHORITIES AND LEND MONEY IN A
SUSTAINABLE WAY, THEN IT'S A
MAJOR TOOL THAT THE AMERICAN
LEADERSHIP CANNOT USE IN ANY
SHAPE OR FORM.
THE U.S. WAS ONE OF THE FUNDING
PARTNER OF THE IMF AND IT'S THE
LEADING SHARESOLDIER OF THE
INSTITUTION.
NO MATTER WHAT IS SAID THE
UNITED STATES WILL KEEP ITS VETO
RIGHT OVER DECISIONS THAT ARE
MADE IN THIS INSTITUTION.
SO TO MAKE A BIT MORE SPACE FOR
CHINA AND THE EMERGING MARKET
ECONOMIES IS ONLY REPRESENTATIVE
OF WHERE THE WORLD IS GOING AND
WE HAVE TO BE THE INSTITUTION OF
THE FUTURE TO SERVE
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION WITH
THE CONSTANT SOLID LEADERSHIP OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
NOT EXERCISING THAT LEADERSHIP
IS A MISTAKE.
>> Woodruff: I HAVE ONE
QUESTION YOU WANT TO ASK YOU
ABOUT RUSSIA, SOMETHING A
DRESSED TODAY.
AS YOU KNOW THERE'S SANCTIONS
IMPOSED ABOUT IT EUROPEAN
COMMUNITY, BY THE AMERICANS.
ARE THOSE MAKING ANY DIFFERENCE
AT ALL?
>> WE LOOK AT ECONOMIC
INDICATORS.
WHEN YOU SEE THE AMOUNT OF
CAPITAL OUTFLOWS FROM RUSSIA TO
THE REST OF THE WORLD IN THE
LAST COUPLE OF MONTHS, TO LOOK
AT THE DECISION TO CHANGE
MONETARY POLICY ON THE PART OF
THE CENTRAL BANK THERE'S CLEARLY
BEEN CONSEQUENCES FROM THE TALK
OF SANCTIONS AND FROM THE
SANCTIONS THEMSELVES.
BUT, YOU KNOW, TO HAVE THIS
MASSIVE OUTFLOW HAS CLEARLY BEEN
AN INDICATION THAT MONEY IS
GOING OUT AFTER THIS COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: YOU ARE SAYING
EVEN THE TALK OF IT, YOU KNOW --
>> THE TALK OF TAPERING HAS
PRODUCED EFFECTS.
THE TALK OF SANCTIONS HAS ALSO
IT'S ALL ABOUT ANTICIPATION.
PRODUCED EFFECTS.
>> Woodruff: TAPERING ON THE
IT'S ALL ABOUT ANTICIPATION.
PART OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE
>> Woodruff: TAPERING ON THE
POLICY.
PART OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE
TODAY YOU MADE A SPEECH JUST A
POLICY.
SHORT TIME AGO ABOUT THE GLOBAL
TODAY YOU MADE A SPEECH JUST A
ECONOMY AMONG OTHER THINGS.
SHORT TIME AGO ABOUT THE GLOBAL
YOU SAID IT'S IMPROVING BUT THE
ECONOMY AMONG OTHER THINGS.
RECOVERY IS TOO WEAK.
YOU SAID IT'S IMPROVING BUT THE
YOU SAID WE COULD BE FACING
RECOVERY IS TOO WEAK.
YEARS OF SLOW AND SUBPAR GROWTH.
YOU SAID WE COULD BE FACING
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN FOR ORDINARY
YEARS OF SLOW AND SUBPAR GROWTH.
PEOPLE?
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN FOR ORDINARY
>> IT MEANS THAT INSTEAD OF
PEOPLE?
HAVING AN ECONOMY THAT IS
>> IT MEANS THAT INSTEAD OF
WARRING, THAT IS CREATING JOBS,
HAVING AN ECONOMY THAT IS
THAT IS DELIVERING INNOVATION,
WARRING, THAT IS CREATING JOBS,
VALUE, YOU HAVE AN ECONOMY THAT
THAT IS DELIVERING INNOVATION,
IS SLUGGISH, THAT IS SLOW GOING
VALUE, YOU HAVE AN ECONOMY THAT
THAT IS NOT CREATING THE NUMBER
IS SLUGGISH, THAT IS SLOW GOING
OF JOBS NEEDED FOR THOSE PEOPLE
THAT IS NOT CREATING THE NUMBER
COMING TO THE JOB MARKET FOR THE
OF JOBS NEEDED FOR THOSE PEOPLE
FIRST TIME OR WHO HAVE BEEN
COMING TO THE JOB MARKET FOR THE
LOOKING FOR A JOB FOR A LONG
FIRST TIME OR WHO HAVE BEEN
TIME.
LOOKING FOR A JOB FOR A LONG
AND THAT'S WHAT IMPROVED GROWTH
TIME.
WOULD DELIVER.
AND THAT'S WHAT IMPROVED GROWTH
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT SHOULD
WOULD DELIVER.
BE DONE.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT SHOULD
YOU TALKED ABOUT WHAT NEEDS TO
BE DONE.
BE DONE ABOUT IT.
YOU TALKED ABOUT WHAT NEEDS TO
>> A COMBINATION OF THINGS.
BE DONE ABOUT IT.
ONE IS STRUCTURAL REFORMS ACROSS
>> A COMBINATION OF THINGS.
THE BOARD.
ONE IS STRUCTURAL REFORMS ACROSS
>> Woodruff: WHAT DOES THAT
THE BOARD.
MEAN?
>> Woodruff: WHAT DOES THAT
>> ELIMINATING BARRIERS.
MEAN?
ALLOWING AND ENABLING
>> ELIMINATING BARRIERS.
ENTREPRENEURS TO SET UP THEIR
ALLOWING AND ENABLING
BUSINESS WITHOUT BARRIER, BRUKCY
ENTREPRENEURS TO SET UP THEIR
AND HURDLE AS LONG THE WAY.
BUSINESS WITHOUT BARRIER, BRUKCY
IT MEANS REFORMING THE JOB
AND HURDLE AS LONG THE WAY.
MARKET SO THAT PEOPLE WHO CAN
IT MEANS REFORMING THE JOB
ACCESS THE JOB, WHO WANT TO GET
MARKET SO THAT PEOPLE WHO CAN
A JOB AND WORK CAN ACTUALLY DO
ACCESS THE JOB, WHO WANT TO GET
THAT THAT APPLIES TO MEN AND
A JOB AND WORK CAN ACTUALLY DO
WOMEN.
THAT THAT APPLIES TO MEN AND
THERE ARE A LOT OF WOMEN, NOT IN
WOMEN.
THIS COUNTRY, BUT ACROSS THE
THERE ARE A LOT OF WOMEN, NOT IN
PLAN THEAT WOULD LIKE TO ACCESS
THIS COUNTRY, BUT ACROSS THE
THE JOB MARKET THAT COULD CREATE
PLAN THEAT WOULD LIKE TO ACCESS
AND DELIVER VALUE THAT CANNOT DO
THE JOB MARKET THAT COULD CREATE
IT.
AND DELIVER VALUE THAT CANNOT DO
TO GET THAT ACCESS WOULD IMPROVE
IT.
THE SITUATION.
TO GET THAT ACCESS WOULD IMPROVE
THOSE ARE TWO AREAS OF REMOVING
THE SITUATION.
THE HURDLES WOULD UNLEASH THE
THOSE ARE TWO AREAS OF REMOVING
POTENTIAL.
THE HURDLES WOULD UNLEASH THE
OTHER THAN THAT MONETARY POLICY
POTENTIAL.
AND FISCAL POLICIES THAT NEED TO
OTHER THAN THAT MONETARY POLICY
BE ADJUSTED TO FACILITATE
AND FISCAL POLICIES THAT NEED TO
GROWTH.
BE ADJUSTED TO FACILITATE
>> Woodruff: YOU ADDRESSED
GROWTH.
AGAIN TODAY, I BELIEVE, THE
>> Woodruff: YOU ADDRESSED
IMPORTANCE OF GETTING WOMEN MORE
AGAIN TODAY, I BELIEVE, THE
INVOLVED IN THE ECONOMY.
IMPORTANCE OF GETTING WOMEN MORE
YOU TALKED IN THE PAST HOW
INVOLVED IN THE ECONOMY.
IMPORTANT IT IS TO HAVE WOMEN
YOU TALKED IN THE PAST HOW
PLAYING SENIOR ROLES IN THE
IMPORTANT IT IS TO HAVE WOMEN
ECONOMY.
PLAYING SENIOR ROLES IN THE
WHY DOES THAT MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
ECONOMY.
AND FOR MEN LISTENING AND SAYING
WHY DOES THAT MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE?
AND FOR MEN LISTENING AND SAYING
WHY WOULD WOMEN BE -- MAKE A
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE?
COMPANY OR BUSINESS MORE
WHY WOULD WOMEN BE -- MAKE A
SUCCESSFUL THAN A MAN WHAT WOULD
COMPANY OR BUSINESS MORE
YOU SAY?
SUCCESSFUL THAN A MAN WHAT WOULD
>> THERE'S MULTIPLE STUDIES TO
YOU SAY?
DEMONSTRATE THAT DIVERSITY, A
>> THERE'S MULTIPLE STUDIES TO
BETTER BALANCE BETWEEN GENDERS
DEMONSTRATE THAT DIVERSITY, A
BUT ALSO BETWEEN DIFFERENT
BETTER BALANCE BETWEEN GENDERS
FIELDS AS WELL IS ACTUALLY
BUT ALSO BETWEEN DIFFERENT
CONDUCIVE TO BETTER GROWTH,
FIELDS AS WELL IS ACTUALLY
BETTER BOTTOM LINE, BETTER
CONDUCIVE TO BETTER GROWTH,
RESULTS.
BETTER BOTTOM LINE, BETTER
WHETHER YOU LOOK AT STOCKS.
RESULTS.
WHETHER YOU LOOK AT PERFORMANCE
WHETHER YOU LOOK AT STOCKS.
OR OUTPUT, IT'S TRUE PRETTY MUCH
WHETHER YOU LOOK AT PERFORMANCE
ACROSS THE BOARD.
OR OUTPUT, IT'S TRUE PRETTY MUCH
IT MAKES ECONOMIC SENSE TO
ACROSS THE BOARD.
ACTUALLY FACILITATE IT.
IT MAKES ECONOMIC SENSE TO
IF YOU TAKE KOREA OR JAPAN WHERE
ACTUALLY FACILITATE IT.
THERE'S AN AGING POPULATION AND
IF YOU TAKE KOREA OR JAPAN WHERE
WHERE IMMIGRATION IS NOT TAKEN
THERE'S AN AGING POPULATION AND
FOR GRANTED, OPENING THE GATES
WHERE IMMIGRATION IS NOT TAKEN
FOR WOMEN TO ACCESS THE JOB
FOR GRANTED, OPENING THE GATES
MARKET IS A GOOD WAY TO RESPOND
FOR WOMEN TO ACCESS THE JOB
TO THAT SITUATION.
MARKET IS A GOOD WAY TO RESPOND
>> Woodruff: CHRISTINE
TO THAT SITUATION.
LAGARDE, THE MANAGING DIRECTOR
>> Woodruff: CHRISTINE
OF IMF, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
LAGARDE, THE MANAGING DIRECTOR
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, ONE MAN'S
EFFORT TO TURN PRISONERS' LIVES
AROUND, JUST AS HE DID HIS OWN.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR REPORT
>> YOU MAY SEE ME WEARING A BLUE
SUIT OR BLUE PANTS AND A BLUE
SHIRT BUT THE REALITY IS THAT MY
JOURNEY BEGAN INSIDE OF A JAIL
CELL JUST LIKE THIS, 26 YEARS
AGO.
>> Brown: MICHAEL SANTOS IS BACK
BEHIND BARS.
>> I FEEL A REAL KINSHIP WITH
EVERY GUY IN THIS ROOM.
EVERY MAN WEARING ORANGE.
>> Brown: BUT THIS TIME, IT'S
HIS CHOICE.
SANTOS WAS JUST 23 WHEN HE WAS
CONVICTED OF TRAFFICKING COCAINE
IN 1987.
>> Brown: HIS OPERATION WAS BIG
ENOUGH TO DREW A 45 YEAR
SENTENCE.
AND WITH CREDIT GIVEN FOR GOOD
BEHAVIOR, HE SERVED 26 YEARS IN
FEDERAL PRISONS.
NOW HE'S TELLING INMATES HIS
PERSONAL STORY OF
TRANSFORMATION.
>> THE VISION THAT I ALWAYS HAD
THAT I WOULD BE ABLE TO COME
BACK TO SOCIETY, PUT ON A SUIT
AND TIE, AND HAVE NOBODY KNOW
THAT I EVER SERVED A DAY IN
PRISON.
AND THAT'S THE VISION THAT I
WANT TO INSTILL IN EVERY MAN IN
THIS ROOM.
>> Brown: SANTOS HAD SUPPORT
FROM HIS FAMILY.
BUT HE ALSO HAD AN INNER DRIVE
THAT'S APPARENT TO THIS DAY.
HERE'S YOU AS A VERY YOUNG MAN.
>> YES, I'M 23 YEARS OLD, LOCKED
INSIDE OF A PIERCE COUNTY JAIL
>> Brown: FROM THE MOMENT HE
ARRIVED IN PRISON, HE BEGAN
PREPARING HIMSELF FOR THE DAY
HE'D BE RELEASED.
EVEN IF IT WAS DECADES AWAY.
HE READ BOOKS ON PHILOSOPHY,
HISTORY AND LAW.
>> THAT'S GEORGE COLE FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT.
>> Brown: HE REACHED OUT TO
LEADING SCHOLARS OF CRIMINAL
JUSTICE AT PLACES LIKE STANFORD
AND PRINCETON, SOME OF WHOM WERE
IMPRESSED ENOUGH TO BECOME
MENTORS.
THIS IS GRADUATION DAY.
>> YES, ON THE INSIDE
>> Brown: OVER THE YEARS, HE
EARNED UNDERGRADUATE AND MASTERS
DEGREES AND WROTE SEVEN BOOKS
ABOUT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM, ALL FROM INSIDE PRISON
WALLS.
>> MY MAIN THING, MY MAIN
MESSAGE IS YOU'VE GOTTA BE ABLE
TO SAY, "I MAKE 100% COMMITMENT
TO REJECTING THE CRIMINAL
LIFESTYLE.
I MAKE 100% COMMITMENT TO
PREPARING FOR SUCCESS UPON
RELEASE."
>> Brown: NOW, JUST SIX MONTHS
AFTER HIS RELEASE, SANTOS WAS
IMPLORING OTHERS TO FOLLOW HIS
LEAD TO A LIFE AFTER PRISON.
I WOULD THINK THAT IN ONE WAY,
THE LAST PLACE YOU'D WANT TO GO
IS BACK TO PRISON TO, BACK
BEHIND THOSE DOORS.
>> Brown: I HAD OPPORTUNITIES TO
JUST COMPLETELY WALK AWAY FROM
MY PAST AND TAKE JOBS WITH SOME
SPONSORS WHO RAN SUCCESSFUL
BUSINESSES.
BUT I HAVE A ROLE AND A DUTY TO
SHOW OTHERS HOW TO PREPARE, HOW
TO COME BACK STRONG.
I HAVE A DUTY TO WORK TO HELP
THE FORMERLY INCARCERATED
TRANSITION INTO THE LABOR
MARKET.
>> Brown: AND SANTOS HAS A
LARGER MESSAGE AS WELL, TO THE
REST OF US: THAT THE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM IS BROKEN.
>> THIS IS A NATIONAL DISGRACE,
OUR COMMITMENT TO MASS
INCARCERATION.
I BELIEVE IT'S THE GREATEST
SOCIAL INJUSTICE OF OUR TIME.
>> Brown: WITH THE KIND OF
ENERGY THAT COMES FROM A MAN
MAKING UP FOR LOST YEARS, OS
IS WASTING NO TIME.
A SILICON VALLEY EXECUTIVE,
IMPRESSED BY SANTOS' WORK,
INVIHIN
ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
>> WE MAY CALL IT A SYSTEM OF
CORRECTIONS, BUT IN REALITY IT
IS A SYSTEM THAT WAREHOUSES
HUMANITY.
>> Brown: SANTOS TOLD THE GROUP
HE BELIEVES PRISONS ARE FILLED
WITH REPEAT OFFENDERS BECAUSE
JAIL TIME TEACHES INMATES HOW TO
LIVE ON THE INSIDE, NOT THE
OUTSIDE.
>> IT IS A FUNDAMENTALLY FLAWED
SYSTEM, BECAUSE IT IS
FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT FROM
WHAT MAKES SILICON VALLEY GREAT.
YOU LOOK AT FAILURE AND YOU
FIGURE OUT A BETTER WAY OF DOING
IT.
RATHER THAN LOOKING AT HOW MANY
CALENDAR PAGES TURN TO MEASURE
JUSTICE, WE SHOULD LOOK AT HOW
HARD AN INDIVIDUAL WORKS TO
RECONCILE WITH SOCIETY AND TO
BECOME ONE AS A LAW-ABIDING
CITIZEN.
WE SHOULD TAKE THE SAME APPROACH
THAT'S LEAD TO SUCCESS IN SO
MANY OTHER AREAS OF OUR SOCIETY,
WHICH IS ENCOURAGING INDIVIDUALS
TO PURSUE EXCELLENCE.
>>AT
TAKE?
>> FRANKLY, I WOULD TALK ABOUT
THE WAY THAT WE MEASURE JUSTICE.
WE SHOULD HAVE A SYSTEM THAT
ENCOURAGES AND INCENTIVIZES
PEOPLE TO WORK TO EARN THE TRUST
AND RESPECT OF THEIR FELLOW
CITIZENS.
>> Brown: RIGHT, BUT THEY'RE
THERE, I MEAN PART OF IT IS
PUNISHMENT, RIGHT?
TAKE AWAY SOME FREEDOM.
>> SO, YEAH, THAT'S PART OF THE
IDEA.
THE QUESTION IS HOW MUCH
PUNISHMENT IS NECESSARY.
THERE COMES A TIME WHERE THERE
IS A DEPRECIATED VALUE SYSTEM OF
THIS PUNISHMENT, THE PUNISHMENT
WEARS OFF, BECAUSE PRISON
BECOMES HOME.
>> Brown: WE JOINED SANTOS AT
THE FIVE KEYS CHARTER SCHOOL,
LOCATED IN SAN FRANCISCO'S
COUNTY JAIL.
HERE, INMATES HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO EARN A HIGH
SCHOOL DEGREE, SET LONG TERM
GOALS, AND LISTEN TO
INSPIRATIONAL GUEST SPEAKERS,
LIKE MICHAEL SANTOS HIMSELF.
HOW DO YOU CONQUER THOSE
FEELINGS OF BEING HOPELESS AND
WHAT CAN I DO WHEN PEOPLE TELL
ME I CAN'T?
>> THE FIRST STEP IS TO QUIT
IDENTIFYING YOURSELF AS A
CONVICT.
YOU CAN START REVERSE
ENGINEERING.
IF I KNOW WHERE I WANT TO BE IN
TEN YEARS, WHERE DO I NEED TO BE
IN FIVE, WHERE DO I NEED TO BE
IN THREE YEARS?
>> Brown: STEVE GOOD IS THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF FIVE KEYS
SCHOOL.
>> MICHAEL SANTOS IS A GREAT
EXAMPLE OF SOMEBODY WHO TOOK
ADVANTAGE OF AN OPPORTUNITY THAT
HE HAD WHILE HE WAS
INCARCERATED.
THOSE OPPORTUNITIES ARE FEW AND
FAR BETWEEN.
AND PROGRAMS LIKE FIVE KEYS IN
THE SAN FRANCISCO JAIL IS REALLY
THE EXCEPTION NOT THE RULE.
>> Brown: INMATES LIKE JUNIOR
LEAPAGA, AND MAURICE BOYLAND,
WHO'VE SPENT YEARS OFF AND ON
BEHIND BARS, TOLD US THEY WERE
INSPIRED BY SANTOS TO TURN THEIR
LIVES AROUND.
BUT THEIR EXPERIENCES ALSO
ILLUSTRATE HOW HARD IT WILL BE.
>> USUALLY WHEN I GET OUT OF
JAIL OR INSTITUTIONS, I HAVE
BEST INTENTIONS TO DO GOOD WHILE
I'M DOING THE TIME, AND AS SOON
AS I HIT THE STREETS AND PUT ON
MY REGULAR CLOTHES, IT'S A
BIRTHDAY FOR ME, I'M THERE TO
CELEBRATE AND THAT'S WHAT LEADS
ME THE WRONG PATH.
I'VE ALWAYS BEEN HALF WAY IN AND
HALF WAY OUT.
I'VE NEVER BEEN FULLY COMMITTED,
WHICH ALWAYS STOPPED ME FROM
ACHIEVING MY GOALS.
>> WHO ARE THESE 53 CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEMS?
>> Brown: AND SANTOS IS GETTING
HIS MESSAGE OUT IN OTHER WAYS
TOO.
HE'S ALSO A LECTURER AT SAN
FRANCISCO STATE UNIVERSITY,
TEACHING A COURSE CALLED, "THE
ARCHITECTURE OF INCARCERATION."
IN JUST IT'S SECOND SEMESTER,
IT'S BECOME HUGELY POPULAR WITH
CRIMINAL JUSTICE MAJORS, SOME
SQUEEZING ONTO EMPTY FLOOR
SPACES.
>> Brown: I READ YOUR LIFE STORY
AND YOU'RE AN IMPRESSIVE
INDIVIDUAL.
BUT WHAT ABOUT THE THOUSANDS OR
EVEN MILLIONS OF OTHERS OUT
THERE, WHAT MAKES YOU THINK THAT
THEY COULD DO WHAT YOU'VE DONE?
>> I THINK THE BIGGEST PROBLEM
IN OUR CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM
IS THAT WE DON'T SET GOALS HIGH
ENOUGH.
IN FACT, WHEN I WAS IN PRISON
AND A GUARD WOULD SEE ME, AND
HE'D SAY, IT DOESN'T LOOK RIGHT,
YOU DON'T FIT THE PROFILE.
I SAID, ISN'T THAT IRONIC,
YOU'RE A CORRECTIONAL OFFICER,
BUT WHEN YOU SEE SOMEBODY WHO
COMES BACK WHOLE, YOU WONDER
WHAT WENT WRONG, RATHER THAN
SAYING WHAT ARE WE DOING RIGHT.
AND WE NEED TO SEND A MESSAGE
THAT PEOPLE IN PRISON CAN COME
BACK WHOLE.
I BELIEVE ABSOLUTELY THAT ANY
INDIVIDUAL CAN DO IT IF WE CAN
CHANGE THE NARRATIVE.
>> Brown: THE SAN FRANCISCO
COUNTY INMATES WE TALKED TO WERE
CERTAINLY READY FOR THAT.
EVEN KNOWING THE TOUGH ODDS OF
CHANGING INSTITUTIONS AND
THEMSELVES.
>> Woodruff: TODAY WAS ANOTHER
DEADLY DAY IN AFGHANISTAN,
PROMPTING NEW FEARS OVER THE
SAFETY OF THIS WEEKEND'S
ELECTIONS.
HARI IS BACK WITH THAT STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: POLICE WERE ON
HIGH ALERT OUTSIDE THE INTERIOR
MINISTRY IN KABUL, AFTER A
TALIBAN BOMBER, WEARING A
UNIFORM, GOT PAST SEVERAL
CHECKPOINTS AND BLEW HIMSELF UP.
SIX OFFICERS WERE KILLED, THE
LATEST VIOLENCE IN THE RUN-UP TO
SATURDAY'S PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION.
IN JUST THE PAST WEEK, THE
TALIBAN STAGED FOUR ATTACKS,
INCLUDING ONE ON THE ELECTION
COMMISSION HEADQUARTERS.
THE MILITANTS ALSO WARNED VOTERS
AGAIN TODAY TO STEER CLEAR OF
POLLING PLACES ON ELECTION DAY.
BUT THE HEAD OF THE ELECTION
COMMISSION URGED VOTERS NOT TO
BE DETERRED.
>> ( translated ): I ANNOUNCE
THAT WE ARE COMMITTED TO HOLD
THE ELECTION AND I CALL ON OUR
HONORABLE PEOPLE TO PARTICIPATE
IN BIG NUMBERS AND CAST THEIR
VOTE FOR THEIR FAVORITE
CANDIDATE, I AM SURE THAT OUR
PEOPLE WILL PARTICIPATE HUGELY
DESPITE SECURITY THREATS, I ASK
OUR PE ORE THE
SECURITY THREATS AND PROVE TO
THE WORLD AND YOUR ENEMY THAT WE
ARE NOT SCARED AND READY TO
VOTE.
>> Sreenivasan: ON THE STREETS,
IT SEEMS AFGHANS ARE INDEED
READY.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS HAVE
TURNED UP AT CAMPAIGN RALLIES.
ALL TOLD, 11 CANDIDATES ARE
RUNNING TO SUCCEED PRESIDENT
HAMID KARZAI, WHO IS BARRED FROM
A THIRD TERM BY AFGHAN LAW.
THE THREE MOST PROMINENT ARE:
FORMER FINANCE MINISTER ASHRAF
GHANI, AND FORMER FOREIGN
MINISTERS ABDULLAH ABDULLAH
AND ZALMAI RASSOUL, WIDELY
REPORTED TO BE KARZAI'S
FAVORITE.
MANY AFGHANS SAY THEY ARE EAGER
TO HAVE THEIR SAY, WITH
STABILITY, PROSPERITY AND
SECURITY UPPERMOST IN THEIR
MINDS.
>> ( translated ): PEOPLE IN
GENERAL ARE WORRIED ABOUT THE
SECURITY SITUATION BUT THE
UPCOMING ELECTION IS A POSITIVE
MOVE TOWARDS CHANGING OUR
DESTINY, I HOPE EVERYONE WILL
PARTICIPATE IN THE ELECTION.
>> Sreenivasan: IF SUCCESSFUL,
THE ELECTION WILL MARK THE FIRST
DEMOCRATIC TRANSITION OF POWER
IN THE COUNTRY'S HISTORY.
KARZAI HAS SERVED SINCE DECEMBER
OF 2001, BUT HIS RE-ELECTION TO
A SECOND TERM WAS MARRED BY
ALLEGATIONS OF EXTENSIVE FRAUD.
IN ADDITION, HE'S BEEN
CRITICIZED FOR AN UNWILLINGNESS
TO TACKLE CORRUPTION.
KARZAI ALSO REFUSES TO SIGN A
BILATERAL SECURITY AGREEMENT
ALLOWING SOME U.S. TROOPS
TO REMAIN IN AFGHANISTAN.
OTHERWISE, ALL FOREIGN FORCES
WILL LEAVE BY YEAR'S END,
AND AFGHAN SECURITY FORCES WILL
BE PUT TO THE TEST IN KEEPING
THEIR COUNTRY SAFE.
KARZAI'S WOULD-BE SUCCESSORS ARE
EXPECTED TO ENDORSE THE SECURITY
AGREEMENT, BUT NONE OF THEM IS
LIKELY TO WIN AN OUTRIGHT
MAJORITY ON SATURDAY.
INSTEAD, THERE'S LIKELY TO BE A
RUN-OFF, POSSIBLY IN JUNE.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE ON THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE UPCOMING
ELECTIONS IN AFGHANISTAN WE GET
TWO VIEWS.
ZALMAY KHALILZAD WAS U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO AFGHANISTAN DURING
THE GEORGE W. BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
HE ALSO SERVED AS AMBASSADOR TO
IRAQ AND THE UNITED NATIONS.
HE ALSO WAS BORN AND RAISED IN
AFGHANISTAN.
HE NOW HAS HIS OWN BUSINESS
CONSULTING FIRM.
AND NAZIF SHAHRANI IS AN AFGHAN
AMERICAN WHO'S A PROFESSOR OF
ANTHROPOLOGY AT INDIANA
UNIVERSITY.
LET ME START WITH YOU.
AFGHANISTAN HAS HAD TWO
ELECTIONS, WHY IS THIS ONE SOT.
IN WELL THIS IS SIGNIFICANT
BECAUSE FOR THE FIRST TIME, AS
YOU SAID, OR THE REPORT
MENTIONED IS THAT A PEACEFUL
TRANSYIKS, DEMOCRATIC TRANSITION
FROM ONE ELECTED LEADER TO THE
NEXT.
THAT HAS NEVER HAPPENED IN
AFGHAN HISTORY.
AND NUMBER TWO, THIS IS ONE
WHERE THE AFGHANS ARE TAKEN THE
LEAD IN TERMS OF SECURITY FOR
THE ELECTIONS AND IN TERMS OF
MANY OF THE INSTITUTIONS THAT
OVERSEE AND ORGANIZE THE
ELECTIONS.
THIS IS MUCH MORE AN AFGHAN
OPERATED ELECTIONS ALTHOUGH
THERE WOULD BE SOME
INTERNATIONAL OBSERVERS.
AND THIS IS A CONSTITUTIONAL
TEST, ALSO FOR THE AFGHANS
BECAUSE PRESIDENT KARZAI CANNOT
RUN AGAIN.
AND THERE WAS A LOT OF
SPECULATION WHETHER HE WOULD
ACTUALLY ALLOW ANOTHER ELECTION,
AND IT ALL LOOKS LIKE -- ALL
INDICATIONS POINT TO THE THE
FACT THAT THERE WILL BE AN
ELECTION AND SUCCESSOR SELECTED.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S BEEN
SEVERAL QUESTIONS.
ONLY A QUARTER OF THE -- THIS IS
STILL A COUNTRY WHERE PATE
REASONNAGE NETWORKS MATTER, WHO
YOU ARE RELATED TO MATTERS,
WHICH TRIBE OR REGION YOU COME
FROM MATTER?
>> IT'S NOT JUST WHERE PEOPLE
ARE FROM OR WHAT ETHNIC GROUP OR
TRIBAL GROUP THEY BELONG TO,
IT'S THE LEGITIMATETY OF THE
GOVERNMENT AND THE VIEWS OF
GOVERNMENT CONDUCTING THIS
PARTICULAR ELECTION.
THIS IS REALLY -- THE VIEWS THAT
PEOPLE HAVE ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT
IN THE LAST 12 YEARS AND
PRESIDENT KARZAI BEING ONE THAT
HAS BROUGHT ABOUT CORRUPTION AND
MISMANAGEMENT AND ABUSE OF POWER
IN MANY WAYS.
THIS IS THE REASON WHY PE
SUSPECT IS NOT GOING LEADING TO
A CLEAN ELECTION.
>> Sreenivasan: I WANT TO ASK
ABOUT THE CLIMATE OF INTIM
DECONTAMINATION HAPPENING FROM
THE TAL TALIBAN, WOULDN'T THAT L
INTO QUESTION THE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE WHO TURN OUT TO VOTE AND
WHETHER IT WAS REPRESENTATIVE OF
THE LARGER POPULATION?
>> WELL, I THINK IN THE LAST FEW
DAYS YOU'VE SEEN A SURGE OF
REGISTRATION.
PEOPLE RATHER THAN BEING
INTIMIDATED BY THE VIOLENCE THAT
OCCURRED, AND THE LEVEL OF
VIOLENCE THIS TIME IS HIGHER IN
KABUL, ESPECIALLY, THAN IT WAS
IN THE FIRST ELECTION WHEN I WAS
THERE IN 2004.
BUT I THINK IT IS ENTHUSIASM
THAT WILL BE LIKELY MORE PEOPLE
VOTING IN THE COMING ELECTION ON
SATURDAY THAN IN THE LAST
ELECTION.
IT IS A POSITIVE.
IT'S NOT WITHOUT CHALLENGES, OF
COURSE.
BUT I THINK THE AFGHANS HAVE
SHOWN BY THE NUMBERS
PARTICIPATING IN THE RALLIES, BY
CANDIDATES CRISSCROSSING THE
COUNTRY, PRESENTING THEMSELVES,
DEBATING, THAT AFGHANS ARE
REACTING WELL TO ELECTIONS AND
TO THIS PROCESS.
SLEENCHTS MR. SHAHRANI, LET'S
TALK ABOUT AFTER THE ELECTIONS.
ARE ANY OF THESE CANDIDATES
LIKELY TO REACH A DEAL WITH THE
TALIBAN AND THE WAR THAT IS
INSIDE THAT COUNTRY?
>> WELL, I THINK THIS IS
OBVIOUSLY GOING TO BE DECIDED BY
THE OUTCOME OF THE ELECTION OF
HOW -- WHO IS GOING TO WIN,
WHETHER IT'S THE FIRST ROUND OR
RUN OFF?
AND THEN IT DEPENDS ON WHO THE
WINNER IS.
I THINK THE WINNERS HAVE
DIFFERENT STRATEGIES.
THE LAW HAS BEEN CONCERNED BY
NOT GIVING UP ANY OF THE GAMES
OF THE LAST 12 YEARS OF
INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT AND TO THE
DEMOCRATIC DEVELOPMENT IN THE
COUNTRY AND HE WILL RESIST
TALIBAN PERHAPS MOST STRONGLY.
WITH GHANI IF HE IS WINNINGING,
HE MAY GO FOR NEGOTIATION.
HE CLAIMED EVEN -- EVENTUALLY
GOT CREDIT RECENTLY THAT HE IS
BEHIND THE RELEASE OF MANY OF
THESE TALIBAN FROM -- IN PRISON
THAT PRESIDENT KARZAI HAS
RELEASED RECENTLY AND HE WAS
CLAIMING CREDIT FOR THOSE.
PRESUMABLY THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
HINTS THAT ARE WHO IS WILLING TO
NEGOTIATE.
>> Sreenivasan: IT HASN'T
WORKED TO TRY TO TAKE THE ENEMY
OF KARZAI AND GAVE THEM
MINISTERSHIPS.
ARE THERE OTHER TACTICS THAT
THIS GOVERNMENT CAN DO TO TRY TO
PLEASE OR WORK WITH THE TALIBAN
IN THE SOUTH?
>> WELL, IT WILL NOT BE EASY.
WE'LL SEE WHETHER THE TALIBAN
RESPONDS POSITIVELY TO THE
PROPOSALS OR TO THE IDEA THAT
ALL THE LEADING CANDIDATES HAVE,
THAT THEY WOULD LIKE TO COME TO
A NEGOTIATED SETTLEMENT.
IT'S A DIFFERENT IN EMPHASIS IN
TERMS OF THE PROSPECTS OF
GETTING AN AGREEMENT AND WHO ONE
WOULD NEGOTIATE WITH IN TERMS OF
WHETHER OR NOT ALL OUT TALIBANS
CAN BE NEGOTIATED WITH AND THOSE
WILLING TO ACCEPT A NEW ORDER IN
AFGHANISTAN.
BUT I THINK WILL IT BE
DIFFICULT.
I BELIEVE THE ELECTIONS IF IT
GOES WELL WILL HAVE A POSITIVE
EFFECT ON THE PROSPECT FOR
NEGOTIATED SEL SETTLEMENTS.
HOW THE SECURITY FORCES PERFORM
IS IMPORTANT.
ALSO THAT THE BSA, BILATERAL
SECURITY AGREEMENT IS SIGNED AND
PURR HAVE A AN IMPORTANT ROLE.
IF ALL OF THAT HAPPENS, I THINK
PROSPECTS FOR A NEGOTIATED
SETTLEMENT WILL IMPROVE.
THAT DOESN'T MEAN THERE'S
CHALLENGES AND DIFFICULTIES, THE
DEVIL IS IN THE NEGOTIATIONS IN
THE DETAILS BUT AS A WHOLE THE
PROSPECTS WOULD IMPROVE IF THOSE
THINGS HAPPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: STAGE WITH YOU
FOR A SECOND, YOU THINK AN
AGREEMENT WOULD BE SIGNED IF
EITHER OF THESE THREE MEN WIN?
>> I THINK SO.
ALL THREE HAVE SAID THEY WOULD
SIGN.
PRESIDENT KARZAI WILL PROBABLY
LOBBY AGAINST IT AND HAVE A LOUD
SPEAKER NEARBY THE PALACE
ADVOCATING AGAINST IT BUT I'M
OPTIMISTIC BECAUSE THE SECURITY
NEEDS OF AFGHANISTAN AND MORE
IMPORTANTLY BECAUSE OF THE
FINANCIAL NEEDS OF AFGHANISTAN.
UNLIKE IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN CANNOT
AFFORD TO PAY ITS BILLS SO IT
NEEDS INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.
THAT SUPPORT IS MORE LIKELY IF
THERE'S A BSA AND THEY THEREARE
SOME FORCES STILL IN AFGHANISTAN
FROM THE UNITED STATES AND NATO.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY, WHAT
DIFFERENTIATES THESE CANDIDATES?
WHAT ARE THEY RUNNING ON?
IS THERE SOMETHING CRUCIAL?
>> THEY DON'T HAVE MUCH TO OFFER
IN DIFFERENCES AMONGST EACH
OTHER.
VERY MUCH -- PERHAPS THE
CANDIDATE THAT PRESENTED IN
THE INTEREST OF MR. KARZAI TALKS
MORE ABOUT CONNUDITY.
THE OTHER ONES ARE TALKING MORE
ABOUT MAYBE PROGRESS CHANGE
ADDED TO COULDN'T NUDITY.
AS -- CONTINUITY.
AS FOR STRATEGY OF DOING THINGS
DIFFERENTLY, I DON'T SEE MUCH IN
ANY OF THEM AND UNFORTUNATELY IT
PROBABLY WILL BE A CONTINUATION
OF MORE OF THE SAME.
AND THAT WOULD BE A TRAGEDY
BECAUSE THE COUNTRY NEEDS SOME
KIND OF CONSTITUTIONAL CHANGE.
AND THAT'S WHAT TALIBAN IS
CALLING FOR.
BUT EXACTLY WHAT HAS NOT BEEN
DISCUSSED.
INTRODUCING SOME ELEMENT OF
COMMUNITY SELF GOVERNMENT AND
DECENTRALIZATION OF POWER MIGHT
ATTRACT THE TALIBAN TO NEGOTIATE
A SETTLEMENT ESPECIALLY IF THEY
CAN HAVE A VOICE.
>> Sreenivasan: I HAVE TO CUT
YOU OFF THERE.
SORRY FOR THAT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: LEADERS FROM AFRICA
AND THE EUROPEAN UNION MET TODAY
IN BRUSSELS TO CONFRONT THE
CRISIS IN THE CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC.
MORE THAN 800,000 PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN DISPLACED IN THE CENTRAL
AFRICAN REPUBLIC IN THE PAST
YEAR, CAUGHT IN THE CROSSFIRE
BETWEEN WARRING MUSLIM AND
CHRISTIAN GROUPS.
YESTERDAY, GWEN RECORDED THIS
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT'S BEHIND
THE RECENT VIOLENCE AND THE
HUMANITARIAN SITUATION IT'S
CAUSED.
>> Ifill: I'M JOINED BY MARK
YARNELL A SENIOR ADVOCATE AT
REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL.
HE HAS RECENTLY RETURNED FROM
THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
WHERE HE VISITED REFUGEE CAMPS
AND VICTIMS OF CONFLICT.
WELCOME AND THANK YOU FOR COMING
TO TELL US ABOUT IT.
WHAT IS AT THE ROOT OF THIS
CONFLICT?
>> ESSENTIALLY THERE WAS AN
ATTACK BY A COALITION OF REBELS
KNOWN AS SALACKA, THE AMAL GA
IMMEDIATE CONSIDERATION OF
INDIVIDUAL GROUPS FRUSTRATED AT
THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT.
WHEN THEY CAME DOWN AND LAUNCHED
AN ATTACK AND OVERTHREW THE
GOVERNMENT, THEY CONTINUED TO
CARRY OUT A -- YOU KNOW, FAIRLY
SEVERE HARASSMENT AND ABUSE
AGAINST VILLAGERS AND CIVILIANS.
EVENTUALLY THE HEAD OF REBEL
GROUP WAS FORCED FROM POWER AND
SINCE THEN THERE'S BEEN REPRISAL
ATTACKS MAINLY BY ANT-BLOCKER
GROUPS WHICH ARE CHRISTIAN
MILITIAS.
>> Ifill: TO THE EXTENT WE
HEAR ABOUT THIS WE HEAR ABOUT
THIS AS A CONFLICT BETWEEN
CHRISTIANS AND MUSLIMS.
IS IT THAT SIMPLE?
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT.
IT'S TAKEN ON A CHARACTERISTIC
WHERE PEOPLE ARE TARGETED NOW
BECAUSE THEY ARE EITHER
CHRISTIAN OR MUSLIM BUT AT THE
SOURCE IT'S MUCH MORE BASED ON
POLITICAL CONFRONTATION, ISSUES
OVER RESOURCES, AND CONTROL OVER
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT.
>> Ifill: FOUR MONTHS AGO, A
HUMAN RIGHTS EMERGENCY WAS
DECLARED THERE, WHAT HAS
HAPPENED SINCE THEN?
>> UNFORTUNATELY, IT'S EVEN
GOTTEN WORSE.
WE WERE THERE A SHORT WHILE AGO
AND SINCE RETURNING THE LEVELS
OF VIOLENCE HAVE SPIKED.
WHILE THERE ARE CERTAIN AREAS
WHERE PEOPLE ARE RETURNING
TOMORROW AND CERTAIN PLACES IN
THE COUNTRY WHERE THERE'S MORE
STABILITY IN THE CAPITAL ITSELF
WE'RE SEEING INCREASED NUMBERS
OF DISPLACEMENT DUE TO CONFLICT.
>> Ifill: WHAT IS THE BIGGEST
CHALLENGE?
IS IT HUNGER?
VIOLENCE?
SIMPLE DISPLACEMENT?
>> IT'S ALL OF THOSE.
THAT'S WHAT IS SO CHALLENGING.
ONE THING THAT IS CLEAR IS THERE
ARE PEOPLE WHO CAN BE ACCESSED
AND CAN BE REACHED WITH AIDE
DESPITE THE COMPLEXITIES.
WE MET A MAN WHO WITH THE
VIOLENCE MET HIS TOWN HE FLED
INTO THE BUSH.
WHEN WE WERE UP THERE VISITING
HE MOVED HOME AFTER SIX MONTHS
TRYING TO RESTART HIS LIFE BUT
WAS IN NEED OF, YOU KNOW, BASIC
SERVICES, THE HEALTH CENTER WAS
DESTROYED.
THREE KIDS DIED LIVING IN THE
BUSH AND HE WAS EAGER TO HAVE
THE BASICS OF TRYING TO GET
HIS -- EVEN PLANTING AGAIN.
>> Ifill: THE 2,000 FRENCH
TROOPS THERE, AND THERE'S TALK
ABOUT MORE AND AT LEAST AN
APPEAL FOR MUCH MORE FROM THE
UN.
WHERE DOES THAT STAND?
>> YOU KNOW, RIGHT NOW YOU ARE
EXACTLY RIGHT.
THERE'S A DEBATE ABOUT AROUND
TRYING TO SWITCH FROM THE
AFRICAN UNION LED FORCE TO A
U.N.-LED MISSION.
THAT DEBATE AND VOTE IS EXPECTED
TO HAPPEN NEXT WEEK.
BUT EVEN IF IT'S VOTED ON AND
APPROVED IT WOULD TAKE
POTENTIALLY A YEAR UNTIL THOSE
TROOPS ARE DEPLOYED.
IT'S AN ISSUE OF GETTING TROOPS
NOW INTO THE COUNTRY TO TRY TO
PROTECT PEOPLE THREATENED TODAY
NOT A YEAR FROM NOW.
>> Ifill: RAINY SEASON LOOMS.
IS THAT A DEADLINE OF SORTS FOR
ACTION TO HAPPEN?
>> IT IS IN THE SENSE THAT THERE
ARE STILL TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE LIVING IN DISPLACEMENT
CAMPS THAT ARE IN FLOOD PRONE
AREAS.
WHEN THOSE RAINS COME, THEY HAVE
ALREADY STARTED.
IT WILL CREATE A MAJOR DISASTER
IN TERMS OF WATERBORNE DISEASES
AND POOR SANITATION.
>> Ifill: THEY CAN'T FARM.
THEY CAN'T CREATE THE FOOD THEY
NEED TO LIVE.
>> EXACTLY.
BECAUSE OF CONFLICT A PREVIOUS
PLANTING SEASON WAS MISSED AND
THE PLANTING FOR THIS YEAR
SHOULD BE HAPPENING TODAY BUT
BECAUSE THERE ARE PEOPLE NOT AT
THEIR HOMES, THEY'VE LOST THE
TOOLS TO PLANT, IT'S A
SIGNIFICANT CRISIS THAT COULD
HAVE IMPLICATIONS FURTHER DOWN
THE ROAD.
>> Ifill: WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
NUMBER OF REFUGEES SCATTERED TO
THE WINDS, IS THERE A WAY OR
PREFERRED METHOD FOR EVACUATING
THEM, ESPECIALLY MUSLIMS WHO
APPARENTLY ARE SURROUNDED BY
CHRISTIAN MILITIAS?
>> IF THEY LEAVE THE PROTECTION
OF THE AFRICAN UNION PEACE
KEEPING TROOPS, THEIR LIVES ARE
LITERALLY IN DANGER IN TERMS OF
BEING ATTACKED.
SO, IT REQUIRES MOVEMENTS TO
SAFER AREAS WITH PRETTY HEAVY
AFRICAN UNION PEACE KEEPING
CONTINGENTS.
IT'S UNCLEAR RIGHT NOW IF THERE
ARE RESOURCES TO BE ABLE TO DO
THAT EFFECTIVELY.
>> Ifill: IF THERE'S ONE THING
THE OUTSIDE WORLD NEEDS TO KNOW
OR DO WITH THIS CONFLICT, WHAT
WOULD THAT BE, IN YOUR OPINION?
>> WE MET WITH PEOPLE THAT COULD
BE REACHED AND ACCESS AND WOULD
BENEFIT GREATLY FROM INCREASED
SUPPORT, BUT AT THE MOMENT THE
FUNDING THAT HAS BEEN REACHED,
CONTRIBUTED FOR THE CRIES WHY IS
ONLY 20% OF WHAT IS NEEDED.
AND SO JUST BASIC, BASIC
RESOURCES WOULD MAKE A BIG
DIFFERENCE.
>> Ifill: MARK YARNELL OF
REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
A GUNMAN OPENED FIRE AT FORT
HOOD, TEXAS.
THEOPLE
WERE WOUNDED, AND A SHOOTER WAS
STILL AT LARGE.
13 PEOPLE DIED IN A MASS
SHOOTING AT FORT HOOD IN 2009.
THE SUPREME COURT RULED, FIVE TO
FOUR, AGAINST LIMITS ON HOW MUCH
MONEY POLITICAL DONORS MAY GIVE
OVERALL, IN ANY ONE ELECTION
CYCLE.
LIMITS ON CONTRIBUTIONS TO
INDIVIDUAL CANDIDATES STILL
STAND.
AND THE CONFIRMED DEATH TOLL IN
THE WASHINGTON STATE MUDSLIDE
ROSE TO 29, WITH 18 OTHERS STILL
LISTED AS MISSING.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, JOURNALIST CARLOTTA
GALL ON THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
PAKISTANI INTELLIGENCE AND THE
TALIBAN.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE, AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.